Installation Documents Overhaul (#3)
unpoller/unpoller.github.io: documentation/docs/install/controllerlogin.md

---
id: controllerlogin
title: Unifi Controller Login
---

## Configuring the Unifi controller

The only requirement of the controller is that UniFi Poller can log in to it and extract data.
For this purpose go ahead and create a new user. Make a note of the username and password you have chosen.

Adding a user depends on the type of controller you have.

### UnifiOS Controller

If your controller is on a UDM, UXG, or UDM-Pro or UCK running UnifiOS then it is recommended that a
Limited Admin user is created with Read-Only rights to the UniFi Network app. Other access
levels may not work correctly.

For example,the screenshot below show the username chosen as `unifipoller`.
This is the default, will be used throughout these docs.

![img](../../static/img/UDM_user.png)

### Non UnifiOS Controller

> If you are using another controller type (eg. Cloudkey or Virtual) then create a menual read-only user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using another controller type (eg. Cloudkey or Virtual) then create a manual read-only user.
```

The `Email` field will be the 'username' you will need to create the config file.

> The Unifi controller currently requires the email be formated correctly. If you don't have your own domain try using @example.com so you don't inadvertantly give access to a random user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Unifi controller currently requires the email be formatted correctly. If you don't have your own domain try using @example.com so you don't inadvertently give access to a random user.
```
